R-Ladies is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form.

This code of conduct applies to all R-Ladies spaces, including meetups, Twitter, Slack, mailing lists, both online and offline. Anyone who violates this code of conduct may be sanctioned or expelled from these spaces at the discretion of the Global Leadership Team.

Some R-Ladies spaces may have additional rules in place, which will be made clearly available to participants. Participants are responsible for knowing and abiding by these rules.

Harassment includes:

Offensive comments related to (QCODE)gender(/QCODE){#gender}, (QCODE)gender identity and expression(/QCODE){#gender_id}, sexual orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, body size, age, race, or religion.
Unwelcome comments regarding a person's lifestyle choices and practices, including those related to food, health, parenting, drugs, and employment.
Deliberate misgendering or use of 'dead' or rejected names.
Gratuitous or off-topic sexual images or behaviour in spaces where they're not appropriate.
Physical contact and simulated physical contact (eg, textual descriptions like "hug" or "backrub") without consent or after a request to stop.
Threats of violence.
Incitement of violence towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm.
Deliberate intimidation.
Stalking or following.
Harassing photography or recording, including logging online activity for harassment purposes.
Sustained disruption of discussion.
Unwelcome sexual attention.
Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others.
Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease.
Deliberate "outing" of any aspect of a person's identity without their consent except as necessary to protect vulnerable people from intentional abuse.
Publication of non-harassing private communication.(/qCODE){harassment}
R-Ladies prioritizes marginalized people's safety over privileged people's comfort. The Global Leadership Team will not act on complaints regarding:

'Reverse' -isms, including 'reverse racism,' 'reverse sexism,' and 'cisphobia'.
Reasonable communication of boundaries, such as "leave me alone," "go away," or "I'm not discussing this with you."
Communicating in a 'tone' you don't find congenial.
Criticizing racist, sexist, cissexist, or otherwise oppressive behavior or assumptions.
On Slack:

Avoid using overtly sexual or offensive usernames or profile photos which might detract from a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all.
Do not publish text/screenshots of anything shared in Slack without explicit consent from the author. This includes screenshots of private messages to public channels, as well as conversations on public channels to anywhere outside of R-Ladies Slack.
Reporting
If you are being harassed by a member/guest/participant of/at R-Ladies, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact the Global Leadership Team via reporting [at] rladies [dot] org. Local incidences will be handled together with the local organisers. If the person who is harassing you is on the team, they will recuse themselves from handling your incident. We will respond as promptly as we can.

This code of conduct applies to R-Ladies spaces, but if you are being harassed by a member/guest/participant of/at R-Ladies outside our spaces, we still want to know about it. We will take all good-faith reports of harassment by R-Ladies members, especially the Global Leadership Team, seriously. This includes harassment outside our spaces and harassment that took place at any point in time. The Global Leadership Team reserves the right to exclude people from R-Ladies based on their past behavior, including behavior outside R-Ladies spaces and behavior towards people who are not in R-ladies.

In order to protect volunteers from abuse and burnout, we reserve the right to reject any report we believe to have been made in bad faith. Reports intended to silence legitimate criticism may be deleted without response.

We will respect confidentiality requests for the purpose of protecting victims of abuse. At our discretion, we may publicly name a person about whom we've received harassment complaints, or privately warn third parties about them, if we believe that doing so will increase the safety of R-Ladies members or the general public. We will not name harassment victims without their affirmative consent.

Consequences
Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately.

If a participant engages in harassing behavior, the Global Leadership Team may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including expulsion from all R-Ladies spaces and identification of the participant as a harasser to other R-Ladies members or the general public.

(QCODE)This policy is licensed under the Creative Commons Zero license.(/QCODE){#license}
